
What is an API? 
---------------

The term API is thrown around so much these days that you might consider it to be some 'genie in a bottle' that leads to the promised land.
The truth of the matter is far less magical, but it is still quite powerful!

API stands for Application Programming Interface. That definition may still leave a lot to be desired. An API is just the way we refer to how a user, developer or other application interacts with an application's components.
It is just the communication interface between two things. A real world example is the Command Line Interface, or CLI, that has been in use for a long time. This is often deemed as antiquated and some will respond with revile if 
you say that you prefer the CLI over a GUI (or nowadays, for example, a REST API). For the purposes of this, when we refer to APIs we will be referring to them in the Web-Based sense.

An API uses common web-based interactions/communication protocols, but as always, it is able to use its own proprietary standards. The API has to be provisioned in some way that enables 3rd parties to interact with the API. That means the API
is able to choose what can and cannot be provided to 3rd parties. If the API does not expose that data or interaction, it is not exposed - although a poorly secured API will be vulnerable to attacks that expose more than intended. Utilising APIs in this way
allows applications to control what is and is not exposed.

An API is an abstraction for access to the application. You need to interact with the application via the prescribed methods in the API. As abstractions always do, they remove some of the complexity from the user and provide the same outcome. 

Why Use an API?
---------------

APIs are usually built to be consumed programmatically by other applications. The name includes 'Programming' as the engagement of an API is usually via a programming language. Although APIs are accessed usually by other applications
it does not preclude humans from interacting with the APIs. It is entirely feasible for a human to interact manually with an application API. It is worth stating that when you use a webpage or form a URL in a web browser you are using working with an API.
Each time you browse to a website you are sending a name of requests, the most prevalent of these requests would be a GET request. Though the following use cases are some of the most popular:

- Automation Tasks: E.g. building a script that performs manual tasks, that you define & program, automatically and programmatically

- Data Integration: E.g. An application that consumes or reacts to data provided by another application (think about e-commerce websites that use payment services like Stripe to process payments)

- Functionality: E.g. An application that integrates another application's functionality into its own (think about those services that use Google Maps API as a core feature) 

Why Are APIs So Popular?
------------------------

APIs are not a new construct. As the description of an API suggests they have been around as long as computers. The difference is that the interaction between APIs was historically heavily locked down.
If they were open it was usually only open to specific partner applications. However, over the last 10 years the demand for better integration has been impossible to resist. As a result more applications have started to expose 
parts of the application via a REST API. This ultimately enables application developers to enable better integration without doing any of the integration work!

Modern applications have APIs designed into the product rather than a bolt-on afterthought. As any part of a product, the API is thoroughly tested to improve reliability. If the API is good then you may find the application
uses the application APIs to communicate. An example being UIs, the application UI is likely built on the same API that is provided to 3rd parties.

It is foolish to ignore the elephant in the room, or rather the snake. The explosion of Python has brought programming to the masses and enabled more people to engage in software engineering. This easy-to-pick up language
makes writing applications and consuming APIs easier. 